---
title: cadence query workflow
date: 2021-11-30
private: true
---
# cadence query
https://cadenceworkflow.io/docs/concepts/search-workflows/#introduction

you can create workflows with keys `city` and `age`, then search all workflows with `city = seattle and age > 22`.

Also note that normal workflow properties like `start time and workflow type` can be queried as well. 

    WorkflowType = "main.Workflow" and CloseStatus != 0 and (StartTime > "2019-06-07T16:46:34-08:00" or CloseTime > "2019-06-07T16:46:34-08:00" order by StartTime desc)

this is also called as `advanced visibility`. While `basic visibility` is referred to basic listing without being able to search.

The query could be specified when listing workflows from the CLI or using the list APIs 
1. https://cadenceworkflow.io/docs/cli/#quick-start
2. https://pkg.go.dev/go.uber.org/cadence/client#Client

## Memo vs Search Attributes
Cadence offers two methods for creating workflows with key-value pairs: memo and search attributes. 
1. `Memo` can only be provided on workflow start. Also, memo data are not indexed, and are therefore not searchable. Memo data are visible when listing workflows using the list APIs. 
2. `Search attributes` data are indexed so you can search workflows by querying on these attributes. However, search attributes require the use of Elasticsearch.

Distinctions between memo and search attributes:

1. Memo can support `all data types` because it is not indexed. `Search attributes` only support basic data types (including `String(aka Text), Int, Float, Bool, Datetime`) because it is indexed by Elasticsearch.
2. Memo does `not restrict` on key names. Search attributes require that keys are `allowlisted` before using them because Elasticsearch has a limit on indexed keys.
3. Memo doesn't require Cadence clusters to depend on Elasticsearch while **search attributes only works with Elasticsearch**.

https://pkg.go.dev/go.uber.org/cadence/internal#StartWorkflowOptions

    type StartWorkflowOptions struct {
        // TaskList - The decisions of the workflow are scheduled on this queue.
        // This is also the default task list on which activities are scheduled. The workflow author can choose
        // to override this using activity options.
        TaskList string

        // ExecutionStartToCloseTimeout - The timeout for duration of workflow execution.
        ExecutionStartToCloseTimeout time.Duration

        // DecisionTaskStartToCloseTimeout - The timeout for processing decision task from the time the worker
        // pulled this task. If a decision task is lost, it is retried after this timeout.
        // Optional: defaulted to 10 secs.
        DecisionTaskStartToCloseTimeout time.Duration


        // CronSchedule - Optional cron schedule for workflow. If a cron schedule is specified, the workflow will run
        CronSchedule string

        // Memo - Optional non-indexed info that will be shown in list workflow.
        Memo map[string]interface{}

        // SearchAttributes - Optional indexed info that can be used in query of List/Scan/Count workflow APIs (only
        // supported when Cadence server is using ElasticSearch). 
        SearchAttributes map[string]interface{}

# Search Attributes
## Allow Listing Search Attributes
Start by querying the list of search attributes using the CLI

    $ cadence --domain samples-domain cl get-search-attr
    +---------------------+------------+
    |         KEY         | VALUE TYPE |
    +---------------------+------------+
    | CloseStatus         | INT        | 
    | CloseTime           | INT        |To list only open workflows: CloseTime = missing 
    | CustomBoolField     | DOUBLE     |
    | CustomDatetimeField | DATETIME   |
    | CustomDomain        | KEYWORD    |
    | CustomDoubleField   | BOOL       |
    | CustomIntField      | INT        |
    | CustomKeywordField  | KEYWORD    |
    | CustomStringField   | STRING     |
    | DomainID            | KEYWORD    |
    | ExecutionTime       | INT        |
    | HistoryLength       | INT        |
    | RunID               | KEYWORD    |
    | StartTime           | INT        |
    | WorkflowID          | KEYWORD    |
    | WorkflowType        | KEYWORD    |
    +---------------------+------------+
 
## CLI to add a new search attribute:

    cadence --domain samples-domain adm cl asa --search_attr_key NewKey --search_attr_type 1
 
The numbers for the attribute types map as follows:

    0 = String(Text)
    1 = Keyword
    2 = Int
    3 = Double
    4 = Bool
    5 = DateTime

Note 2: `Keyword and String(Text)` are concepts taken from Elasticsearch. Each word in a String(Text) is considered a searchable keyword.  For a UUID, that can be problematic as Elasticsearch will index each portion of the UUID separately.

For example, key RunID with value "2dd29ab7-2dd8-4668-83e0-89cae261cfb1"
1. as a Keyword will only be matched by RunID = "2dd29ab7-2dd8-4668-83e0-89cae261cfb1" 
2. as a String(Text) will be matched by RunID = "2dd8", which may cause unwanted matches


## Value Types
Here are the Search Attribute value types and their correspondent Golang types:

    Keyword = string
    Int = int64
    Double = float64
    Bool = bool
    Datetime = time.Time
    String = string

## Limit
We recommend limiting the number of Elasticsearch indexes by enforcing limits on the following:

    Number of keys: 100 per workflow
    Size of value: 2kb per value
    Total size of key and values: 40kb per workflow

Cadence reserves keys like DomainID, WorkflowID, and RunID. These can only be used in list queries. The values are not updatable

## golang to add a new search attribute:
Go samples for search attributes can be found at github.com/uber-common/cadence-samples (opens new window).

    func MyWorkflow(ctx workflow.Context, input string) error {

        attr1 := map[string]interface{}{
            "CustomIntField": 1,
            "CustomBoolField": true,
        }
        workflow.UpsertSearchAttributes(ctx, attr1)

        attr2 := map[string]interface{}{
            "CustomIntField": 2,
            "CustomKeywordField": "seattle",
        }
        workflow.UpsertSearchAttributes(ctx, attr2)
    }
 
After the second call to UpsertSearchAttributes, the map will contain:

    map[string]interface{}{
        "CustomIntField": 2,
        "CustomBoolField": true,
        "CustomKeywordField": "seattle",
    }

Use `workflow.GetInfo` to get current search attributes.

# Query Capabilities
Query workflows by using a SQL-like where clause when listing workflows from the CLI or using the list APIs 

## Supported Operators
    AND, OR, ()
    =, !=, >, >=, <, <=
    IN
    BETWEEN ... AND
    ORDER BY

## General Notes About Queries
1. Pagesize default is 1000, and cannot be larger than `10k`
2. Range query on Cadence timestamp (StartTime, CloseTime, ExecutionTime) cannot be larger than 9223372036854775807 (maxInt64 - 1001)
3. Query by time range will have `1ms` resolution
4. **Query column names are case sensitive**
5. ListWorkflow may take longer when retrieving a large number of workflows (10M+)
6. To retrieve a large number of workflows without caring about order, use the ScanWorkflow API
7. To efficiently count the number of workflows, use the CountWorkflow API

# tool search
## cli search workflow
### Start Workflow with Search Attributes

    cadence --do samples-domain workflow start --tl helloWorldGroup --wt main.Workflow --et 60 --dt 10 -i '"vancexu"' -search_attr_key 'CustomIntField | CustomKeywordField | CustomStringField |  CustomBoolField | CustomDatetimeField' -search_attr_value '5 | keyword1 | vancexu test | true | 2019-06-07T16:16:36-08:00'
 
### Search Workflows with List API

    cadence --do samples-domain wf list -q '(CustomKeywordField = "keyword1" and CustomIntField >= 5) or CustomKeywordField = "keyword2"' -psa
 
    cadence --do samples-domain wf list -q 'CustomKeywordField in ("keyword2", "keyword1") and CustomIntField >= 5 and CloseTime between "2018-06-07T16:16:36-08:00" and "2019-06-07T16:46:34-08:00" order by CustomDatetimeField desc' -psa

Note that queries can support more than one type of filter:

    cadence --do samples-domain wf list -q 'WorkflowType = "main.Workflow" and (WorkflowID = "1645a588-4772-4dab-b276-5f9db108b3a8" or RunID = "be66519b-5f09-40cd-b2e8-20e4106244dc")'

## web ui search
Queries are supported in Cadence Web (opens new window)as of release 3.4.0. 
Use the `"Basic/Advanced"` button to switch to "Advanced" mode and type the query in the search box.

# Running Locally
1. Increase Docker memory to higher than 6GB. Navigate to Docker -> Preferences -> Advanced -> Memory
2. Get the Cadence Docker compose file. Run curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/uber/cadence/master/docker/docker-compose-es.yml
3. Start Cadence Docker (which contains Apache Kafka, Apache Zookeeper, and Elasticsearch) using `docker-compose -f docker-compose-es.yml up`
4. From the Docker output log, make sure Elasticsearch and Cadence started correctly. If you encounter an insufficient disk space error, try `docker system prune -a --volumes`
5. Register a local domain and start using it. `cadence --do samples-domain d re`
6. Add the key to ElasticSearch And also allowlist search attributes. `cadence --do domain adm cl asa --search_attr_key NewKey --search_attr_type 1`

# Running in Production
config in production: https://cadenceworkflow.io/docs/concepts/search-workflows/#running-in-production
note:
1. config es/kafka: https://github.com/uber/cadence/blob/master/docs/visibility-on-elasticsearch.md#configuration
2. static config: https://cadenceworkflow.io/docs/operation-guide/setup/#static-configuration
2. Note: starting a workflow with search attributes but without advanced visibility feature will succeed as normal, but will not be searchable and will not be shown in list results.

# References